Ond roedden nhw'n gwybod y bobl o'r hoffordd, ysgwyddoedd, ysgwyddoedd,
roedd arall Davies,
Noel Jones a Arall Davies.
Roedd o'n bobl o'r hoffordd, oeswn?
Roedd.
A'r brod Davies oedd y brod o'r bach ar y cyfnod, oeswn?
Ie, roedd...
O, Norman.
Roedd y bach yn ei...
Mae'n bach iawn, oedd Norman Davies.
Ie, y bach hynny'n dda, roedd yn dda'n dda.
Chris, y pethau y byddwn yn mynd ar gyfer hŷr
roedd yn y pethau Chris, roedd yn mynd i...
Bristol.
Bristol, dwi'n mynd.
Ych chi'n dweud.
O, dyna'n dda.
Mae'n gwybod.
Ymddygiad.
Mae'n dda, mae'n dda.
Ym...
Rwy'n mynd i'n gweithio yn...
fel y pethau yma, ystod yng ngordino.
Rwy'n mynd i'n gweithio yn yng ngordino.
Mae'n bach iawn o'r bobl o'r ffylidion yng ngorllewin,
yn y pethau bach.
Yn y ffordd yma.
Rwy'n mynd i'n mynd i'n gweithio ar hynny.
Ie, dyna'r hynny.
Alf Poutney.
Yn ogystal â'r hyn, felly roedd gennym ddwy o'r hyn o'r hyn.
Eric Davies, Alf Poutney,
a...
Gordon Harris.
Gordon Roberts.
Yn ogystal â'r hyn.
Gordon yn dod yn dda unrhyw amser, ond...
ond...
ond... nid, dwi ddim yn gallu ei roi.
Alf oedd y bobl iawn.
Alf oedd y bobl iawn, a roedd yn llwybr hyfforddiant.
Roedd yn cael ei ddwylo.
Yn ogystal â'i ddwylo, nid oedd yn dda oedd y ffyrdd.
Roedd yn dda.
Gallai.
Nid, ond polio.
Ac roedd wedi effeithio fel d racion polio o gymlrwuri.
Roedd wedi effeithio fel y gallai.
When I went to knock while his eyes were gone.
Yndi nonogol i'r bobl iawn o'r Neil Gaugher?
He didn'tANT COULD COULD cwrdd ar hynna' iDon't want hwn strwn?
He didD, didn't he?
He get poor eyesight.
ac ar li y altous.
He could ride.
If he had turned vertically there woulda got dogs.
Mae Washington North climbing up the sports shop in Shoesmeaier total nude.
Os bais o fe.
Ac roedd Toy Pe Pingson fe route these bats mate specially for.
Roedd wedi sev addi Blake dough really well.
Mae'r bŵer yn dda.
Beth o'r bwysau o'r bach a'r pethau y byddwch chi'n ei fwynhau?
Roedd yn dda yn dda, ac rwy'n credu bod y pethau y byddwch chi'n ei dda heddiw.
Dwi ddim yn gallu ei ddod.
Roedd o'r bwysau o'r helmets, dydyn ni ddim wedi'i gynhyrchu'r byd.
Yn olaf, gallai eich bod yn dda, ond byddwch chi'n mynd i'r ddwy o'r ddwy o'r gweithiau.
Padd was o ran y shackle.
Nid yw'r pethau'n dda'r gwaith iawn.
A'r bach, mae'n cysylltu o'ch gael y bach yma heddiw.
Nid yw'r bach yn dda heddiw.
Ond yn olaf, o ran y bach o'r gweithiau.
Yn olaf, o ran y bach o'r gweithiau.
Roeddwn yn dda yn dda.
Roeddwn yn dda.
Yn olaf, o ran y bach o'r gweithiau.
Dwi ddim yn gwybod yn y byd.
Who had that? Jonesy?
Keep it, take it with you, I'll do without.
Too smelly!
Do you remember people getting hurt?
Yep, well, there's that famous one.
Oh yeah!
Though they did, but the most famous was Grintana and the Vicar of Condor.
Do you remember?
No, I don't remember.
Well, Grintana, he hadn't got a box on the Vicar.
Condor used to play and he'd get him midships.
And because Glenn always exaggerated, he said they swelled up so much,
you had to take him up and put him on a wheelbarrow.
But that was...
Glenn was forever telling Jonesy.
That was a Grintana, but apparently he was very ill for weeks.
Glenn lived on that story for donkeys.
Quite a long time, yeah.
Donkeys years.
As a quick baller, I would pride myself I hit someone.
Especially in the ribs.
You've got the Colin Davis attitude.
That's one I'm there to be hated.
You were the same vintage as Lillian Thompson.
That's right. That's what I enjoyed, was Lillian.
Especially Thompson as well.
Yeah, well, you couldn't get more aggressive than those two, could you?
No.
Some of the matches, though, that we did play in, Newtown, Llandud, Lewis,
I know that they were particularly venomous on occasions.
Yeah, Llandud, Lewis played hard, didn't they?
Especially Meredeth.
Yeah, the wicket keeper.
And of course, Chinke from Newtown, Keith Harding.
Horrible little man.
He was always...
You two were always going at one another.
Always.
You'd see someone back.
Well, I didn't, yeah.
And you wouldn't let him lay.
No, he was a good spinballer.
Very good spinballer.
Oh, the one year, the first year that Montgomery won, Lee, I think.
We had to beat Newtown up there, and we had to get a draw with them,
and beat Chelmarsh, I think, in the final game.
And Montgomery were reduced to about...
Oh, Newtown batted very well, they made 180 or something.
Montgomery were about 60 for five.
Kinsey was still in.
Gareth Jones came in, and they played a bit,
and Kinsey decided, he said to Gareth,
You play Harding, I will play Alan Williamson, Brian Jones.
And that's what they did, they stayed.
And Gareth was one of the few who could play Harding.
Well, he spun the ball, John could play it, because he used to go out to it.
No, Gareth could play him, because Gareth could play him on the leg side.
Kinsey used to go out to a 6'3 or 7'2 field.
Well, he used to get me out regularly, Harding.
I couldn't find him at all.
In the end, I decided, because I wasn't fleet footed,
I used to go right back on the stumps and watch the ball,
and he couldn't get me out then, but when I used to play forward,
I'd add it straight away by going right back on the stumps and watching the ball come on.
Nice little man.
There were a lot of incidents with Newtown, especially during and after.
It got worse after I was there about a year ago.
League cricket.
You had to have a new ball.
The Nigel Owen was working for the Post Office at the time,
and he didn't finish in time, and they would hold the game up.
Oh, Nigel hadn't come, so Harding had forgotten the ball,
he'd have to go home for the ball.
He'd bring Nigel, how long are you going to be?
And he'd come back, there wasn't a new ball.
There was something else.
Oh, that was another employer of theirs.
Rob, our captain of the town, go out and toss a coin.
Oh, the captain hasn't come.
Go out and toss a coin with somebody, and oh, win the toss.
And then the captain would show up.
Oh no, didn't authorise him to toss.
We'd have to toss the coin again.
That wasn't Newtown.
That would have happened once, but we didn't agree to it, did we?
It used to be the most bad.
It happened more than once.
It happened once, I can remember it happening once,
and we refused to toss again.
This is after my time.
This was an iterated bad, even, Newtown, there.
Well, I couldn't accept that we had come up and were as good as they were.
They were always the top dogs in MacGonish, weren't they, Newtown?
Oh, yeah.
Always.
They did have good players, didn't they?
All their players.
In our time.
Edgar Williams was a very good captain and player.
Because Edward was a captain.
He counted, didn't he?
Oh, yeah.
He followed John Bennett as captain, I think, didn't he?
Edgar was a fierce competitor, but he was one of these little tricks about Edgar.
He played it hard and he played it fair.
Yeah, same with football, I believe.
Terrific.
Do you think that, I mean, you sort of mentioned sort of chatter and things during the play.
Did that change, do you think, in the time that you were all playing?
Did it get worse?
It got worse.
Well, they say I chatted a lot.
I didn't think I chatted a lot.
It did.
Oh, it did.
Well, I didn't mind that.
I enjoyed that.
I thought it was good.
Because it can work psychologically to your own advantage, somebody going on.
I would hate it coming into the wicket batting in Newtown players.
Because the innuendos that you get, you knew what they were trying to do.
And it was very, very intimidating, especially for one so young.
Nigel Owen particularly was a good daft hand at sledging.
Sledging wasn't as widespread as today, probably, but he used to sledge, didn't he?
Oh, yes.
He's got eyes up the head.
Yes.
I think one or two others, Keith Harding did as well.
Oh, he was always, he was one of the main protagonists.
And the wicket keeper, what's his name?
He kicked the stump.
Fred Taylor.
Fred who kicked the stump.
He kicked the stump so?
With his toe.
Yeah.
Because he did come and play for Montgomery.
He played for Montgomery, right.
He went on that tour.
Because he always used to tell me how he used to do it, like, with the stump.
Oh, yeah.
Very competitive.
I think there were bowlers just as quick then as there are today, but maybe not as many
as there are these days, perhaps.
I don't know.
The only quick ones I can remember is Nigel and Richardson Church.
He was quick.
Oh, he was quick, yeah.
No, not what, oh, of course, Noel Jones.
He gave the impression of being quick because he was a big bloke, like, wasn't he?
Yeah.
Because he always used to smoke a pipe as well, didn't he?
The Evercross was quick at Welshpool.
Not as quick as Ken Lewis, but Ken Lewis must have been the quickest.
Probably quicker than Nigel, wasn't he?
Probably.
Nigel got a big advantage of height.
He would always bowl.
The bloody thing was up under your height.
Ken Lewis beat the bowl more.
Yeah, Ken Lewis was a skiddy sort of bowler.
Yeah, and he moved it back.
Like, for a fast bowler, what was Ken?
Five foot eight or nine?
He wasn't much taller, was he?
Yeah, he wasn't much taller.
Nigel was Llyrwood more than that.
So it's, as you say, Malcolm Marshall later times.
They always said Malcolm Marshall's bounce was the most hard to deal with because it was lower trajectory than the big six foot six like Garner and Mosh and Ambrose.
So, yeah.
But the big difference, the wickets must be a lot better now.
Well, they are.
Much.
Certainly local cricket anyway.
Some of the wickets we played on were diabolical, weren't they?
Oh, come on.
Not just here, but in Landbathlin.
Well, Landbathlin is still the same now as it was then.
Really?
We don't play over there.
Caersers?
I don't remember.
De Funct.
Is it?
We had a few run-ins with Fordham.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Because I was reading some of the old reports that one match was abandoned and your name was mentioned.
Never.
Who was the main one?
Stafford.
He was.
Paul Stafford.
Oh, he was a nasty.
Beauty Stafford and Paul Stafford.
You've got a good memory.
He was a nasty bit of goods.
Paul Stafford.
Paul Stafford was a good cricket to Herbie.
But he was a nasty piece of goods.
Paul Stafford could be.
I remember Herbie had two little boys, Lance and George, you might know them.
They were about Lance Stafford.
They used to have sheep running round on the field then.
I can see Herbie running off in the middle of an over to sort these boys out and say, slapping Lance around the yard and saying, God say that, those are not currents.
And he was stuffing his bum in.
Chomping.
Chomping spotlings.
Yeah, there was the elf feeling there sometimes.
Now we're out sort of the other way around.
Games where you played, you know, where there was respect between the two sides.
It was a good game to play.
Did you remember Goods Side?
Yeah, Hardcourt was one, wasn't it?
Hardcourt was a nice match.
Played in a good spirit.
Wiggins.
Church Stratford.
Oh, Wiggins too.
Yeah, Henry Wiggins.
That was a great fixture.
They had a very good bowling bowler.
Ball right through always.
Guy Mortis was another one.
Yeah, Guy Mortis.
You see, you tend to forget the nice things.
You remember the incidents, don't you?
In life, not just in cricket.
Do you remember, I can only remember once, somebody turning up drunk to play for Montgomery Cricket Club.
I don't know whether you remember that.
No, I don't remember that.
Wasn't Robinson?
Tim Robinson.
Gerald Robinson.
Did he, gentlemen?
We went up to Lannadus to play and he was drunk as anybody could be.
He was staggering about.
He kicked the wicket.
He was f***ing and blinding.
And it's the only time I've seen a cricketer sent off the field.
Harry sent him off.
Harry sent him, go.
He sent him off.
Oh, it's terrible.
I don't think we went down very well as Lannadus.
So what were the circumstances behind that?
He had a lift with someone.
He used to go in the pub, didn't he, before the matches, Tim?
He used to go in the checkers before we went.
He used to be there two hours drinking.
He could be a good batsman.
He was a good sportsman.
So I remember Tim and John, they were playing in the same club.
I remember Tim and John knocking up 120 to win without a wicket going down against Cork over.
Yeah, he should have put on over 100 once.
I remember that, yeah.
Once.
He could be a good wicketkeeper when he was sober.
I shouldn't be saying these things about people, probably.
Talking about wicketkeepers, in my time we've had two outstanding wicketkeepers.
Ed Williams, square man, came.
Lanny Boy worked in Kent and played fairly high class league cricket in Kent.
Came back, couldn't get him now.
Well, he lived in Guildfield, but he wanted to play for Lannadus.
Lyn Meredith was Lannadus wicketkeeper, he was a county wicketkeeper.
So Ed came here and he made a big difference.
Well, he made a big difference to me because I became friendly with him.
He coached my boys and Andrew in high school.
Later we had Phil Stevenson came who had played, who was a very, he was a spiky character.
Whereas a lot of us didn't confront unless somebody confronted us, Stevenson went out to confront people.
He would start it.
I was always within the rules, but I was not comfortable with umpiring when Stevenson was playing, quite honestly.
Did you ever, when you were an umpire, were you ever mindful of what was going on and have to speak?
I spoke to one, I used to speak to Stevenson quite often.
Look, talking about wicketkeepers, going back to the 50s, Gordon Evans was a good wicketkeeper.
He was a decent wicketkeeper.
Sound rather than brilliant.
But then, you know, wicketkeepers like I remember, wicketkeepers in those days, especially in Montgomery, fast forward bowling,
you stopped a lot with your pads because they did come straight along the ground.
Yeah, or jumped up at you.
We didn't have thigh pads though in those days.
No, no.
It wasn't no. Helmets would come in and it was a different ball game, wasn't it, altogether?
It was.
It was all right for somebody like John, he was fast on his feet.
And get up or get hit, did you?
The rest of us were a bit slower on our feet used to get hit.
You weren't slow, Brian. You make out, you were.
Old man in your 20s you made out.
It's a laden footed compared with you now.
No, I don't know.
Really?
You're running yourself down, I think.
No, I was wrong.
Princess of modesty, you think?
Yes, it is, yes.
I mean, that outfield was so diabolical, wasn't it? You couldn't hit a four, it was hard going.
It must have been.
I remember Harry had scored 50 or something and he had blisters all over his hands and some cut in the ball.
Yes.
That's because of the job he did. Remember when he said, you walked an inch your nose against Bishop's Castle, was it?
No, I cut my eye there.
Oh, your eye, was it?
Yes.
Off the top edge.
Off the top edge of a slow bowler.
I did the same at Condover once. I think Noel Jones bowled and I came up, I was straight into the infirmary.
I had six stitches across here at Condover. There was blood all over the place.
I don't think I'd played for about a month after.
But apart from that, there was no serious injury.
No, no serious injury.
There was somebody from, got a terrible band down here one day from knocking over.
Do you remember? But there weren't many, were there?
No.
Very few and far between.
I've got one tale that you two will know but Philip knows about.
In that we went to, oh, what's that place by Bridge North?
Rowslake?
Craven Arms?
No, no.
Werfield?
Warfield.
Philip was umpiring.
Oh, yes.
And Jonathan was fielding at Deep Square Lines.
Jonathan Williams.
And the ball went out to him and he threw it in.
And I was, I think I was watching, I was standing on the boundary by Jonathan when he threw it in.
And this ball hit Philip the umpire from the back of my head.
Full tilt.
And Jonathan never said a word when he threw it.
He didn't shout, look out, or anything like that.
And it laid him.
It laid me out.
Did it?
It was absolutely amazing.
It really was.
It was such a good aim.
I didn't, you know, I had a lump, but I didn't have a headache.
I did give Jonathan a few choice words.
Was he as, I don't remember him bowling like you, was Jonathan as quick as Chris here when he was a school boy?
Almost so, when he was at his best.
And he's the quickest since Chris was out.
He hadn't got good, well, control when he was fast.
He learned control later.
He hadn't got the nastiness in him that this man had got.
No.
No, Jonathan was too passive.
And he said he should be more like me.